Thanks to Visual Studio Code,
it becomes really easy to work with
the various console terminal prompts you're going to need here because for each of this,
for Truffle, for the client app and the server,
you're going to want to have a terminal access.
So we're going to start up a new terminal here and close this out.
So we can now focus on the dapp.
So the dapp consists of very basic HTML code.
We'll see what it looks like in the browser and just a moment,
but it's a blank canvas and it has a couple of things to help get you started.
I wanted to make sure that there was one read and one writer transaction
scaffolded here which you can then use as boilerplate
to craft all the other code that you will lead.
So that starts off in index and earlier,
I alluded to the fact that we are trying to use modern development techniques.
So one of the things that we've built into the dapp here is
webpack so that at the end of it when you are ready and even during development,
webpack will hot load the page in your browser.
So you don't have to go through the code save reload cycle.
That's a typical thing you do in web development these days to use
webpack to make your development much more seamless.
So that is fully supported here and we'll do that in just a moment.
So in the next file here, we have essentially,
it's a proxy into the actual contract.
So these are just wrapper functions.
This particular one is calling in to
this operational function of the smart contract to see if it's operational.
This one here is a mini form where you can submit
a flight and trigger the oracles in the server app.
So that's a bit complicated.
We'll come back to that one,
once we've looked at the server.
But let's first look at this contract.js file here.
So this is the actual Web3 boilerplate code
to get started with interacting with the contract.
There is no code here for the actual
calls you're going to make beyond the two that I just described.
So here's the isOperational code where it is using Web3 code to call it.
Now, for some of you who may have a significant experience with Web3 perhaps,
keep in mind that there are major differences between version 0.20 and 1.0.
So this is using 1.0,
which has a lot of promise-based kind of calling approach.
So when you are searching on Stack Exchange and other places when you're stuck,
keep that in mind be very careful about what code you refer to.
If it's 0.2, Web3 0.2 code,
then it is generally only partially applicable.
It may not always work.
So be attentive to that little detail to avoid some frustration.
Here the fetchFlightStatus as I mentioned,
is calling into the app and
calling the function that we have set up to trigger the oracles.
So let's see how this works.
In order to see that, let's go into
our package json and look at the various scripts that are available.
So our default npm test will test out the flight surety but we have three other options.
We can run the dapp script which is going to be used for
webpack hot loading and development server for
the data and then we can use dapp prod in order to deploy.
You probably are not going to make use of this one but part of
what I wanted to make sure with this particular scaffolding,
is that you have a basis for your future blockchain dapps and so build that in.
So it'll essentially package everything up and make it ready for deployment.
Finally, the server script is for developing the oracle component which is the servers,
and that too has hot loading capability.
So you don't have to do a lot of stop-start, etc.
So with that done,
let's go ahead and do npm run dapp,
and that kicks off our webpack and starts dapp running on local-host at port 8000.
So let's go over to to that which is right here all queued up and ready to go.
You'll hit enter and there's the UI for our app.
I'd like to keep the console open when I develop because we'll be doing a lot of that.
So you can see the results of the call that's already been made to the contract.
It called the operational status and return true.
So that means our code that is right here
is correctly working and working in concert with Ganache.
In fact, let's do this one more time.
Let's go ahead here and restart Ganache so we can
see the the transaction come in, and go back.
Actually, I'll need to do a migrate because the contracts will have gone away.
So let's do that.
That's actually something that is
going to be an important part of your development cycle.
Be hyper-aware of what version of your contract is currently
deployed to Ganache and when hitting that restart might have caused it to be wiped out.
And so you might spend some time scratching your head about why your dapp code is not
working when you made no change to the smart contract and it's
because of the fact that Ganache is mutable.
So we got that deployed again and because it's hot loading everything,
you can see here that this status is true.
We'll just go ahead and go into this code here,
and make a tiny little change.
Before I do that, I'll bring up this here.
So we'll make a tiny change and and save,
that compiled and now,
since it was a read, there's no transaction there.
In a few minutes,
we'll go ahead and call the fetchFlightStatus and we'll see this code being exercised.
So what I have here is of an input field for typing in
a flight number and then a button that triggers the journey to the oracles.
So that's the lay of the land for the client dapp,
now let's go and take a look at the server